# **Objectives and requirements**</br>*IBM Cloud (SaaS) Configuration*

## **i. About this lab**

For the purposes of the Level 4 training curriculum, the hands-on components have been split across both on-premises and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) environments on IBM Cloud. Both are supported by IBM Technology Zone (ITZ) infrastructure.

The <a href="https://ibm.github.io/wca-l4/on-premises/1/" target="_blank">**On-Premises Installation and Deployment**</a> modules extensively covers the process of preparing, installing, and deploying a full-stack IBM watsonx Code Assistant (WCA) service "on-premises" (OpenShift on VMware). However, resource and budget constraints for ITZ team means that **GPUs are unavailable for on-premises training environments** like the one deployed in those modules. The NVIDIA A100 or H100 GPUs required are simply too cost-prohibitive to be made available for individual IBMers and business partners. These costs are beyond the scope of what can be supported for training with on-premises environments.

Fortunately, participants ***do* have access to GPUs for SaaS training environments** on IBM Cloud. The **IBM Cloud (SaaS) Configuration** module will guide participants through the process of reserving the necessary *Standard* plan of WCA via ITZ and configuring the environment for use. Other modules in the L4 curriculum  (**<a href="https://ibm.github.io/wca-l4/appmod/1/" target="_blank">Application Modernization</a>**) will each leverage the SaaS environment configured in the following steps.

There are two tiers of plans (editions) available for SaaS deployments of WCA:

| Plan | Details | Use Cases |
| - | - | - |
| **ESSENTIALS PLAN** | Accelerates software development, allowing developers to use WCA with integrated generative AI (gen AI) for coding. | Generating, explaining, and documenting code. Creation of unit tests. |
| **STANDARD PLAN** | In addition to all the capabilities found in the *Essentials* plan, the *Standard* plan includes enterprise Java modernization capabilities, which will be of particular advantage for the <a href="https://ibm.github.io/wca-l4/appmod/1/" target="_blank">**Application Modernization**</a> modules of the Level 4 curriculum. | Java upgrades, regardless of runtime. WebSphere to Liberty transformation. Enhanced unit test generation and code explanation. |

To ensure that participants have access to the enterprise Java modernization capabilities, the instructions of this module call for provisioning a **WCA Standard Plan** as the basis of the SaaS environment.

## **ii. Prerequisites**

There are two high-level architectural components to WCA Standard Plan:

!!! note ""
    1. **WCA extension**: The interface through which developers interact with WCA, in the form of an extension (sometimes called a "plug-in") running in an integrated development environment (IDE). The IDEs currently supported by WCA are Visual Studio Code (VS Code) and Eclipse.
    2. **WCA service:** The back-end WCA service, to which requests from the extension are made and the results returned to the participant's IDE. It is available as software-as-a-service (SaaS) on IBM Cloud and as deployable software for on-premises deployments.

Participants require access to ITZ in order to reserve an environment and complete the hands-on work. If you do not yet have an account with the ITZ, you will need to <a href="https://techzone.ibm.com/" target="_blank">**register for one**</a>.

---

## **iii. Troubleshooting and support**

If you require assistance or run into issues with the hands-on lab, help is available.

- **Environment issues:** The lab environment is managed by IBM Technology Zone. <a href="https://techzone.ibm.com/help" target="_blank">**Opening a support case ticket**</a> is recommended for issues related to the hands-on environment (provisioning, running, and so on.)

- **Product questions:** For questions related to IBM watsonx Code Assistant capabilities, sales opportunities, roadmap, and other such matters, open a thread on the <a href="https://ibm.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C059NKPUCP9" target="_blank">**#watsonx-code-assistant**</a> Slack channel.

---

## **iv. Next steps**

In the following section, participants will prepare the SaaS-based lab environment with the necessary services and configurations through IBM Technology Zone.